## List of functions and what they do:

Only the functions from `obd2_Base.py` will be covered here.

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> This tool is unfinished. Expect inaccurate or incomplete documentation. 

A resource that covers many basics about OBD-II communication is [Summivox's Wordpress](https://summivox.wordpress.com/2019/05/31/obd-2-in-bullet-points-and-examples/).

<table>
<tr><th>Function Name</th><th>What does it do?</th></tr>

<tr><td><pre>printMulti()</pre></td><td><pre>
When working with large scripts that contain statements to print out multiple lines of text, the usual way its done is by doing the following.<br>
print("""
TEXT
WILL
GO
HERE
""") <br>
This works, however if the text being printed is on an indented line, then the indents are preserved. The inner text will then need to have all indents removed, which can make the script look "messy". 
This function calls dedent from the textwrap library to accurately print multiline text with indents. 
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>sendCANmsg()</pre></td><td><pre>
Send CAN message to vehicle. Commands <u>MUST</u> follow this format:<br>
sendCANmsg("7DF#02 01 0C 00 00 00 00 00")
<i>This command tells the vehicle to return the value for the engine speed/RPM.</i><br>
Use https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OBD-II_PIDs to help you generate commands.
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>readCANmsg()</pre></td><td><pre>
Listen and read for a specific command. This function is intended to be used directly after sending a command using sendCANmsg(). Commands <u>MUST</u> follow this format:<br>
readCANmsg(True, "7e8", False)
<i>This command tells the script to wait for and return a command that leads with "7E8".</i><br>
Returns only the requested data and all relevant information.<br>
Function Parameters:
PARAM 0 - arbIDneeded: Is an arbitration ID needed? (True/False)
PARAM 1 - arbID: Arbitration ID. (String)
PARAM 2 - advancedOut: Advanced output? (True/False)<br>
Returns byte array.
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>vinYearDecode()</pre></td><td><pre>
Offline check to determine the vehicles year. Requires VIN in string form. Returns 2 possible years in a array due to limitations. 
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>vinCheckDigitCheck()</pre></td><td><pre>
Offline check to determine if the provided VIN's check digit passes. Requires VIN in string form. Returns True or False.<br>
You can find the check digit algorithm at https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Vehicle_Identification_Numbers_(VIN_codes)/Check_digit.
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>vinNHTSAGetInfo()</pre></td><td><pre>
Looks-up the VIN number online through the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) vehicle API. Requires VIN in string form. Returns dictionary of all values from the API. 
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>vinNHTSAFind()</pre></td><td><pre>
Function that will search through the output returned by vinNHTSAGetInfo(). Returns value for requested information.<br>
PARAM 0 - variable: What are you looking for (example: Manufacturer Name, Make, Engine Model, Doors, etc)?
PARAM 1 - inDict: Dictionary generated by vinNHTSAGetInfo().
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>vinPrintVehicleStat()</pre></td><td><pre>
Mini tool that aids VIN lookups during CLI use. 
</pre></td></tr>

<tr><td><pre>runMain()</pre></td><td><pre>
Main function ran during CLI use.  
</pre></td></tr>

</table>